Subtext is in the air when Therese Belivet meets the eponymous Carol Aird for the second time in Todd Haynes's 2015 historical romance film _Carol_ (based on Patricia Highsmith's 1952 novel _The Price of Salt_). "So I'm sure you thought it was a man who sent you back your gloves," says Therese, whom Carol has invited to lunch as a friendly reward for returning the gloves that Carol left in the department store where the aspiring photographer Therese works as a dayjob. "I did. Thought it might have been a man in the ski department," says Carol. When Therese apologizes, Carol dermurs: "No, I'm delighted. I doubt very much I would have gone to lunch with him."

The naïve viewer who doesn't already know what this movie is about must entertain multiple hypotheses as to what she meant by that: perhaps Carol thinks that taking a man out to lunch would be perceived as an overture to a romance which she's not currently seeking, whereas a lunch date with another woman is understood by all to not be a _date_-date (particularly in 1952). But alternatively, maybe the function of a lunch date as a date-date is exactly what Carol intended. (Indeed, one is given to wonder if Carol left her gloves behind on purpose after meeting Therese in the department store, or even she even visited the ski department.)

The need to be subtle and discreet while persuing a same-sex romance against the will of a disapproving 1950s moral majority can be seen in other texts from or depicting this era: for example, in "Lesbians United" (excerpted in _The Stonewall Reader_), Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon (perhaps best known as the namesakes of the Lyon-Martin clinics) recount naming their lesbian organization the "Daughters of Bilitis" specifically because normies wouldn't understand the historical reference. (Bilitis was a contemporary of Sappho, perhaps best known as the namesake of the word _sapphic_.) One is inclined to imagine _Carol_ fanfiction in which Aird joins the Daughters of Bilitis after the events of the film.